To act when we add this opened attribute, we need to listen to changes in attributes obviously and you
learned how that works, right?
Thus far, we have all the logic in the constructor,
now it's simply time to add more methods here and I will add the attributeChangedCallback here and
you remember that you here get the name of the attribute which changed, the old value and the new value
and then this will trigger for any observed attribute which changed.
For this, we also have to add our static getter here, observedAttributes and make sure you get the naming
right here
otherwise it will not work
and there you have to return square brackets and then the name of the attributes you want to watch
and here it's the opened attribute and if you chose a different name that will be added here outside
of your component,
then you also have to listen to a different name in here of course.
Now for the addition of the open attribute, this should be triggered and then when this runs,
maybe we also have other attributes.
So here I will check if name is equal to opened
and if that is the case, we know that something happened on the opened attribute,
so we probably want to show our modal but I can simply add another if check and see if this has an attribute
of opened now because if that is now available,
then we know it has been added and then I know I want to change the styling, to set the opacity to 1
and to set pointer events to all,
so to react to two clicks on my backdrop and my modal again and there are a couple of ways of doing that.
One thing we can do is we can access our shadow root and there of course, query for our backdrop
and set the style of the backdrop and here, simply add opacity or set opacity to one and then also the
style of the backdrop pointer
events should be set to all to react to all clicks on the backdrop. And now we do exactly the same here
for our modal, so there we also set the opacity to one and the pointer events to all.
And if you save that and you reload that page and you click that button, indeed both shows up here and
now we can't click this button here anymore because the pointer events are on,
we now catch any clicks with the backdrop and with the modal.
This is one possible way of doing this,
there are other possible ways too
but I will actually comment this out.
It might seem like the obvious way of reacting to the opened attribute
but if all you want to do is change some styling, then there is a way easier approach to do that, to get
there.
You don't need attributeChangedCallback for that,
you don't need to listen to these changes
even, so I'll comment all of that out.
It's nice knowing that and you wouldn't need that if you had any other logic you want to execute like start
a timer,
change some text, add an element but if you just want to change some styles, you can do that with CSS
only because what happens when the opened attribute is added to our tag here?
Well then it looks like this here,
right,
our tag and then the opened attribute
and you might remember that in CSS, there are attributes selectors.
So we can simply write a CSS rule that changes the style when the opened attribute is available on
our root element, on our host element.
So what I'll do is I'll add a new rule here,
:host with the condition that the opened attribute is there and this is all I need to write for this,
this now means for the host element which is our custom tag, when the opened attribute is available
and this is the normal attribute syntax you know from CSS,
then I want to change this style and I want to change the style of my backdrop, so I can still combine
the selectors and this just means select the backdrop
if my host has the opened attribute and then I want to set the opacity to one and I want to set pointer
events to all
and I can now of course do the same for my modal by simply repeating this with #modal. And with
this change in place, please keep in mind that I commented out my attributeChangedCallback,
so with this change in place up here, we can go back and reload our page and still click that button and
see the modal and the backdrop
and this is now the more elegant way of solving this
if you only need to change styles. If you need it to do anything else, like add an HTML element, then of
course you would need to listen to that and then run whichever logic, add whichever element you want
to add in your attributeChangedCallback.